# Enrique Ramirez's SQL Portfolio

Hello, thank you for taking the time to read through this! This repository contains work I did with SQL and Tableau. Below is an examples of the SQL I've wrote along with a presentation completed in Tableau to accompany the project. Please feel free to reach out at (enrique.ed.ramirez@gmail.com) with any feedback or questions.

## Employee Attrition - **[SQL](https://github.com/EnriqueEdRamirez/SQL-Project/blob/main/Employee_Attrition.sql)**, **[Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/views/Employee_Attrition_17381014505230/SUMMARY?:language=en-US&:sid=&:redirect=auth&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)**
- **Data:** [IBM HR Analytics Employee Attrition & Performance](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/pavansubhasht/ibm-hr-analytics-attrition-dataset)
- **Purpose:** Gain insight into trends in relationship with employee attrition

In this project I used the data set to formulate potential reasons/trends in relation to employee attrition. Various aspects of each employee and job position were taken into consideration and broken up into two main sections. Firstly, "THE PERSONAL" aspect which focus on individualistic characteristics of employees such as age, gender and marital status. The second section is more directly focused on "THE JOB SPACE" which aims to narrow down attrition trends to specific job roles and their relation with, monthly pay, job satisfaction level and education level just to name a few.

The SQL portion of this project cleans up some of the "unused/uneccessary" data and provides a more wholistic and general view while also including many of the numerical values found in the Tableau portion. Furthermore, the SQL portion also contains additional variables, such as, education field and travel distance, which was not focused on in the Tableau portion.

The Tableau portion of the project seeks to narrow down the data into more specific trends while also searching to provide a more numerical approach to the data. It is also meant to present what can be acertained from the information provided in a more proffessional manner.
  
* Disclaimer: *This is a synthetic dataset generated by IBM Data Scientists. Furthermore, this data/analysis includes information such as AGE and GENDER which may provide intersting insight into the topic being researched BUT it should not be used to inform workplace decisions. The analysis made based on this data should also NOT be used as a predictive model to determine employee attrition and instead should be viewed as a snapshot to explore potential reasons for employee attrition.*
